hey guys it's Dave from computing
forever.com in today's video it's time
for me to do a retro review of the iMac
g4 the second-generation
iMac I'd like to start off first of all
by saying that I was inspired to make
this video by my good friend Harry from
his YouTube channel I Harrison 30 he
recently made a retro review of the 17
inch iMac g4 that he owns which you need
to check out and his website tech media
fusion he's a great guy and a very cool
person as many of you know so the iMac
g4 it was first released in January 7
2002 and came in 315 inch versions
beginning with a 700 megahertz g4
processor with a CD or W and the highest
end model which you see before you
featured an 800 megahertz g4 with 256
Meg's of RAM and a 68 harddrive with a
DVD super drive it cost one thousand
seven hundred and ninety nine dollars at
the time it was later user empower by
the 17 and 20 inch versions with one
gigahertz and 1.25 gigahertz chips
respectively the design remains to this
day truly unique and breathtaking all of
the internal components are housed
inside the base unit with the ports at
the back USB firewire Ethernet power etc
the display is connected to a stainless
steel arm that can rotate 180 degrees in
either direction and pivot back and
forth as well as swivel up and down it
was the first flat panel LCD display
from Apple and effectively ended the
reign of the C or T interestingly enough
the design of the g4 iMac was born out
of compromise Apple had originally hoped
to create what we now see today as the
current iMac all-in-one they wanted to
design the machine to live entirely
inside the flat panel display but at the
time the technology didn't exist to
allow them to do that
the DVD super drives couldn't reach the
same speeds when they were placed
vertically and there were other
technical challenges with the
motherboard also that they couldn't
handle at the time they wanted to make
sure that the hardware components
weren't simply lumped onto the back of
the display like they were with the g3
otherwise it wouldn't truly be a flat
panel anymore so the DVD super drive and
motherboard had to be placed inside the
dome like base unit later of course
technical advances
would allow them to develop the iMac g5
and subsequent IMAX also conform to this
design approach
I bought this iMac on buy and sell D
from a very nice guy in Dublin called
brine for 75 euros as you can see he has
included the original Apple Pro speakers
which are powered through a proprietary
connector at the back they produce
excellent sound considering their parrot
off the iMac and so many Apple fans out
there wish that Apple were still making
these I mean look at these things
they're really beautiful
also you've probably recognized that he
hasn't included the original g4 keyboard
this is an old g3 keyboard I'm not too
disappointed it's nice to have it all
the same I can always buy the correct
keyboard on eBay this one is pretty poor
to type on it has to be said the mouse
is the original one of course it's not
bad but a scroll wheel would be nice he
also didn't include the OS 10 reinstall
discs it's not entirely a problem right
now
he has OS 10 panther installed 10-point
3.9 latest version it runs well it's
optimized to run well on the g4 its
stable the iLife apps run well iTunes is
stuck on version 4 however I have no
access to the online store as a result
but it's nice to have a look back at the
iPhoto and iMovie at the time and see
what they were like back then the
machine works great as a DVD player for
watching movies as well there isn't
quite enough power to watch videos with
high resolutions or high data bit rates
though but I've been able to play a lot
of home movies stuff at 640 by 480 720
by 576 it seems to like DV pal which is
good I did have to update it to
QuickTime version 7 sadly web browsing
is not what I had hoped I have the
highest version of Safari that will work
on Panther which is one point three
point two and for the most part as you
can see it provides solid web surfing
experience Here I am on Wikipedia it's
nice and quick and lots of sites will
provide this humble little browser with
a stripped down HTML version so you can
view it without all the elaborate
content I can log into Gmail and do
things like that but
the more modern web technologies that
have been developed over the years or
slightly past to this version of Safari
innovations in JavaScript html5 new
versions of flash and other web
standards have a habit of making the
browser crash in fact I can't visit
Google search or YouTube at all
I downloaded a not so old version of
opera which provides me with a full
visibility of the web but sadly websites
with a lot of content just hang and
become frustrating to use with the
spinning beach ball of death at every
turn YouTube videos will barely play and
only after a considerable and
unacceptably long delay I can't complain
too much however it's unfair of me to
try and review this machine in the
context of the present day you can still
surf the web you just have to know where
you can and cannot go
there's 384 Meg's of RAM in this iMac as
it received an update of an additional
128 Meg's from the previous owner
I think I might increase it to 1
gigabyte so that I can run Tiger but I'd
only do that if I can notice a
substantial improvement in performance
leopard is probably ever the question as
I would have to contend with constant
disk swapping if Tiger can allow me to
run a more modern version of Safari and
iTunes at a respectable performance
level that I might just invest in more
RAM but I don't know yet if any of you
have installed it please let me know how
it's running for you overall I'm happy
with it as a collector's item who knows
in 25 years time there could be a real
demand for these things right now it's a
project computer for me something to get
up and running and working I won't be
gutting it and turning it into a lamp
like some people have or into an iPad
stand very creative repurposing projects
out there but I'd like to keep it as
Apple had intended so guys that's my
quick retro review of the iMac g4 let me
know what you think of this one I still
think that it's a great purchase for Mac
fans or or for people who just are a fan
of I suppose the design aesthetics that
we're very unique to this machine let me
know your thoughts be sure to hit
like button and subscribe for more you
can follow me on Twitter like 78
computing forever is over on Facebook
and I'll see you in the next video bye
bye